= data_pipeline =

== <code>loader_mat.py</code> ==

Contains the class <code>Loader</code> which has methods for loading <code>.mat</code> files containing output MATLAB <code>Struct</code>’s generated during simulation and from the SARUS scanner.

== <code>train.py</code> ==

contains the class <code>Model</code> which provides a crude interface for:

* (<code>load_mat</code>) Ingesting output of the <code>Loader</code> class of <code>loader_mat.py</code>.
* (<code>print_img</code>) Visualizing data/labels.
* (<code>illustrate_history</code>) Visualizing the metrics over training epochs.
* (<code>fit_model</code>) If not done beforehand, either loads a pretrained model or builds, compiles, provides data generators and fits a model provided by the <code>build_model.py</code> script, see below.

== <code>build_model.py</code> ==

This script contains a crude Tensorflow implementation of UNet, see: [https://arxiv.org/abs/1505.04597 UNet]<br />
with the hyperparameters set in <code>config.ini</code>.

== <code>layers.py</code> ==

Implements certain types of layers not currently present in Tensorflow, but which are part of the UNet neural network.

== <code>run_pipeline.py</code> ==

This script assumes you have a the following setup: * A config files, following the format of <code>config.ini</code>, '''all''' fields are required. * A directory which contains the following structure:

<pre>storage ------- training --------- data  
              |                  |  
              |                  ---- labels  
              |  
              ---- validation --------- data  
                                |  
                                ------- labels</pre>
'''In the future a <code>evaluation</code> folder with subfolders <code>data</code> and <code>labels</code> will be required to.''' * A directory which contains the following structure*:

<pre>mat_folder ------- train --------- data ----- [.mat-files]
              |                   
              |  
              ---- valid --------- data ----- [.mat-files]</pre>
* '''Note the difference in folder structures, this is to ensure that the user does not interchange these folders.'''

=== Example usage: ===

<pre class="{bash}">python3 run_pipeline.py -conf 'config.ini' -s_dir 'storage' -m_dir 'dir/w/mat-files'</pre>
This scripts does the following operations: * If the folder <code>storage/training/data/</code> is not empty, data from <code>dir/w/mat-files/train/data/</code> is loaded in using <code>Loader.load_mat_folder</code>. * If the folder <code>storage/validation/data/</code> is not empty, data from <code>dir/w/mat-files/valid/data/</code> is loaded in using <code>Loader.load_mat_folder</code>. * <code>Model.fit_model()</code> is executed, and broadcasts an execution log to a <code>.log</code> files contained in <code>output</code>, the naming format is: <code>model_{ddmmyyyy_hh}.log</code> with the date and hour of execution. * <code>Model.illustrate_history(history)</code> is executed, where <code>history</code> is the <code>tensorflow.Model.History</code> object of the fitted model. The plots are saved to <code>output</code>, the naming format is: <code>accuracy_{ddmmyyyy_hh}.log</code> and <code>loss_{ddmmyyyy_hh}.log</code> with the date and hour of execution. * <code>Model.print_img()</code> is executed and saves examples images of data to <code>output</code>, the naming format is: <code>examples_{ddmmyyyy_hh}.log</code> with the date and hour of execution.

== TODO ==

* A more flexible input shape handling, allowing for both single 3d data frames, and 4d data.
* Do docstrings for all functionalities.
* Automatic docstring broadcasting to wiki-page.
* Broadcasting of examples should also be of labels, not only data.
* The <code>Model.illustrate_history(history)</code> should be of all used metrics, not only <code>accuracy</code> and <code>loss</code>.
